Title: Handshakes, Citizen Science and Evolution
URL: 2017/descriptions/19186.html
save_as: 2017/descriptions/19186.html



In the 1980s Robert Axelrod invited submissions for a computer tournament in
which people submitted strategies for the Iterated Prisoner's dilemma. This
is a game in which individuals choose to either cooperate or defect
with each other. Since then similar work has been used to understand the
evolution of cooperative behaviour in an evolutionary setting.

Like a large number of early (and sadly ongoing) research code, the code from
Robert Axelrod's work was lost. Similar ongoing work is often done with poor
sustainable practice for the software involved. In 2015, a Python library aiming
to reproduce Axelrod's work was put on github (the Axelrod library). It has
since accumulated more than 200 strategies with contributions from Academics and
hobbyists alike.

This vast OPEN treasure trove of game theoretic tools is now being used to
undertake a number of research projects. Including one that looks at an
evolutionary process called a Moran Process which is a model of a population in
which the makeup of future generations of the population depend on how well
individuals of the current generation perform.

In 2012 a piece of research claimed that there was no advantage to having long
memory of interactions. The work this talk will describe demonstrates how that's
not true in evolutionary dynamics. Indeed: complex strategies have been trained
using reinforcement learning and the huge number of strategies available through
the Axelrod library to perform particularly well.

Interesting behavioural aspects also emerge: without external input, the strong
strategies evolve "handshakes". These handshakes allow them to recognise friend
or foe in the population and act accordingly.

This work not only has implications at a game theoretic and reinforcement
learning level but can also help
understand how and why complex behaviour can emerge in evolutionary settings.