Title: SciPy2013 Debrief -- Survey Results
Date: 2013-10-28
Comments: true
Category: SciPy
Author: Anthony Scopatz <scopatz@gmail.com>
Summary: SciPy2013 Survey Results

Following our meteoric rise during SciPy 2013, the organizers
conducted an exit survey and the results are rave!  These surveys are
extraordinarily valuable to the organizers because they help us plan
for the next year logistically (size, space, etc.) and
programmatically (keynotes, tracks, etc).  They also let us know how
we did as organizers, and give us opportunities for personal growth
:).  But on to the numbers!

A total of 78 of 350 attendees (22%) responded in some form.  Of these
68% had attended for the first time in 2013.  The following table
shows how the respondents felt we measured up.  All values are on a
scale of 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest) with unanswered questions masked
out.

<table>
<tr><th>Experience</th><th>Number of respondents rating</th><th>Average score</th></tr>
<tr><td>Overall Conference Experience</td><td>77</td><td>4.66</td></tr>
<tr><td>Tutorials</td><td>38</td><td>4.44</td></tr>
<tr><td>General Sessions</td><td>76</td><td>4.42</td></tr>
<tr><td>Sprints</td><td>47</td><td>4.19</td></tr>
<tr><td>Overall Quality of the Poster Session</td><td>64</td><td>4.05</td></tr>
<tr><td>Sprints Event at Scholz’s Friday Evening</td><td>35</td><td>4.36</td></tr>
<tr><td>SciPy Reception Wednesday Evening</td><td>55</td><td>4.31</td></tr>
<tr><td>Key Note Addresses</td><td></td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>&emsp;&emsp; Fernando Perez</td><td>73</td><td>4.8</td></tr>
<tr><td>&emsp;&emsp; William Schroeder</td><td>63</td><td>4.38</td></tr>
<tr><td>&emsp;&emsp; Oliver Grisel</td><td>58</td><td>4.10</td></tr>
<tr><td>Domain Mini Symposia</td><td></td><td></td></tr>
<tr><td>&emsp;&emsp; Bio-Informatics-Next Generation Sequencing</td><td>14</td><td>4.14</td></tr>
<tr><td>&emsp;&emsp; Astronomy and Astrophysics</td><td>12</td><td>4.08</td></tr>
<tr><td>&emsp;&emsp; GIS-Geospatial Data Analytics</td><td>17</td><td>4.24</td></tr>
<tr><td>&emsp;&emsp; Medical Imaging</td><td>11</td><td>3.73</td></tr>
<tr><td>&emsp;&emsp; Bio-Informatics-Frameworks</td><td>11</td><td>4.27</td></tr>
<tr><td>&emsp;&emsp; Meteorology, Climatology, Atmospherics and Oceanic Science</td><td>18</td><td>4.22</td></tr>
</table>

Almost all scores are between 4 and 5 and the overall experiance was
felt to be closer to 5 than to 4.  In many ways this reflects how the
organizers felt about the conference at the time.  That the responders
were mostly first timers makes this even more impressive and
important. It means that we, as a community, have done an excellent
job of welcoming newcomers.

Looking forward, 85% of responders plan on coming again next
year. This is a great indicator that our community -- which is what it
is all about -- is successfully growing.  When asked in a free form
way what they liked most about the conference 41% responded indicated
that it was the community that made SciPy valuable to them.

However, as we all know, just putting a bunch of like-minded people in
a room together doesn't always work out.  So why did it work out here?
In the responder's own words:

> "The great community and giving it a space to meet and make their own."

> "The atmosphere; instead of the confrontational, antagonistic
>  atmosphere of academia, SciPy felt like everyone was in this
>  together."

> "It's size made it very manageable, I felt like I was actually able
>  to interact with people (which is harder at bigger conferences)."

I am inclined to believe that our fantastic atmosphere is a function
of the belief in openness that many of the conference goers share.  As
one survey responder put it "the overall openness and enthusiasm to
share" is something that makes SciPy a very generous place.

Are there things we can do better?  Of course. Will we endeavor to
address these issues as best we can for next year? You bet!  And in
that spirit, we will be be releasing the anonymized results of the
survey.  Feel free to take a gander.

Overall though, this was truly a superb year for SciPy.
Congratulations all around, especially to the sponsors and organizers,
and most especially to the attendees!
